One of the great challenges in giving a good answer to the question of what's the meaning of life is, I think, illustrated best by the Victor Frankl example. Although there are other examples, too, which is that our sense of meaning is very elastic in time and space.

It's amazing to me that somebody locked in a cell or a concentration camp can bring the horizon in close enough that they can then micro slice their environment so that they can find rewards and meaning and power and beauty even in a little square box or or a horrible situation.

And I think this is really speaks to one of the most important features of the human mind, which is we could do let's take two opposite extremes.

One would be let's say the alarm went off right now in this building and the building started shaking our vision, our hearing, everything would be tuned to this space time bubble for those moments and everything that we would process, all that would matter.

The only meaning would be get out of here safe, figure out what's going on, contact loved ones, etc.

If we were to sit back totally relaxed, we could the thing where we can imagine ourselves in this room and then there we are in the United States, in this continent, in the earth, and then peering down on us and all of a sudden you get back. It can seem so big that all of a sudden it's meaningless. If you see yourself as just one brief glimmer in all of time and all of space you go to, I don't matter.

And if you go to every little thing that happens in this text thread or this comment section on YouTube or Instagram, your space time bubble is tiny. Then everything seems inflated and the brain will contract and dilate its space, time, vision and time, but also a sense of meaning. That's beautiful. It's what allows us to be so dynamic in different environments and we can pull from the past and the present and future. That's why examples like Nelson Mandela and Victor Frankl had to include. It makes sense that it wasn't just about grinding it out. They had to find those dopamine rewards even in those little boxes they were forced into. 

I'm not trying to dodge an answer, but for me personally and I think about this a lot because I have this complicated history in science, where my undergraduate/graduate adviser and postdoctoral advisor all died young, and they were wonderful people and had immense importance in my life.

But what I realized is that because we can get so fixated on the thing that we're experiencing holding tremendous meaning, but it only holds that meaning for as long as we are in that space time regime. This is important because what really gives meaning is the understanding that you can move between these different space time dimensionalities. I'm not trying to sound like a theoretical physicist or anyone that thinks about the cosmos and saying that. It's really the fact that sometimes we say, do, and think things and it feels so important. Then two days later, you think like what happened? Well, you had a different brain processing algorithm entirely. You were in a completely different state. 

What I want to do in this lifetime is I want to I want to engage in as many different levels of contraction and dilation of meaning as possible. I want to go to the micro. 

Sometimes I think about this. If I just pulled over the side of the road, I bet you there's an anthill there and their whole world is fascinating. You can't stay there and you also can't stay staring up at the clouds and just think about how we're just these little beings and it doesn't matter. The key is the journey back and forth, up and down that staircase. My goal is to get as many trips up and down that staircase as I can before the reaper comes for me.

And I've watched people die. I watched my postdoc advisor die. It was tragic. But they found beauty in these closing moments because their bubble was their kids in one case or like one of them was a Giants fan and like got to see a Giants game in her last moments. You just realize like it's a Giants game, but not in that moment because time is closing. So those time bins feel huge because she's slicing things so differently.

I think learning how to do that better and more fluidly, recognizing where one is and not getting too attached to the idea that there's one correct answer, like that's what brings meaning. That's my goal.