I think asking what's the meaning of life is either the wrong question or that question is answered by paying sufficient attention to any present moment, such that there's no basis upon which to pose that question. It's not answered in the usual way. It's not a matter of having more information. It's having more engagement and consciousness with reality as it is in the present moment.

You don't ask that question when you're most captivated, by the most important thing you ever pay attention to. That question only gets asked when you're abstracted away from that experience, that peak experience. And you're left wondering why are so many of my other experiences mediocre. Why am I repeating the same pleasures every day? Why is my Netflix queue going to run out? Like, I've seen so many shows like this, am I really gonna watch another one? That's a moment where you're not actually having the beatific vision. You're not sunk into the present moment and you're not truly in love. Like you're in a relationship with somebody who you conceptually love. This is the person you're living your life with, but you don't actually feel good together. It's in those moments where attention hasn't found a good enough reason to truly sink into the present. So as to obviate any concern like that. That's why meditation is this kind of super power. Because until you learn to meditate, you think that the outside world where the circumstances of your life always have to get arranged so that the present moment can become good enough to demand your attention in a way that seems fulfilling. That that makes you happy. 

So if you're doing jujitsu you think, I gotta get back on the mat, it's been months since I've trained. That's the only place I feel great, right? Or I've got a ton of work to do. I'm not gonna be able to feel good until I get all this work done. So I've got to some deadline that's coming. You always think that your life has to change. The world has to change so that you can finally have a good enough excuse to truly just be here. And here is enough. The present moment becomes totally captivating. Meditation is another name for the discovery that you can actually just train yourself to do that on demand.

Just looking at a cup can be good enough in precisely that way. Any sense that it might not be, is recognized to be a thought that mysteriously unravels, the moment you notice it and the moment expands and becomes more diaphanous. Then there's no evidence that this isn't the best moment of your life. And again, it doesn't have to be pulling all the rains and levers of pleasure. It's not like this is the most chocolatey moment of my life. No, it's just that the sense data doesn't have to change.

But then the sense that there is some kind of basis for doubt about the rightness of being in the world in this moment, that can evaporate when you pay attention. That is kind of the meta answer to that question. The meaning of life for me, is to live in that mode more and more. Whenever I notice I'm not in that mode to recognize it and return. To cease more and more to take the reasons why at face value, because we all have reasons why we can't be fulfilled in this moment. We've got all these outstanding things that I'm worried about. There's that thing that's happening later today that I'm anxious about whatever it is. We're constantly deferring our sense of this is it. This is not a dress rehearsal, this is the show we keep deferring it. We would just have these moments on the calendar where we think, okay, this is where it's all going to land. It Is that vacation, I planned with my five best friends. We'd do this once every three years, and now we're going, and here we are on the beach together. 

Unless you have a mind that can really pay attention, really cut through the chatter, really sink into the present moment. You can't even enjoy those moments the way they should be enjoyed the way you dreamed you would enjoy them when they arrive. Meditation in a sense is the great equalizer. It's like you don't have to live with the illusion anymore, that you need a good enough reason, and the things are going to get better when you do have those good reasons. There's just a mirage like quality to every future attainment and every future breakthrough, and every future peak experience that eventually you get the lesson that you never quite arrive. You don't arrive until you cease to step over the present moment in search of the next thing.

We're constantly stepping over the thing that we think we're seeking in the act of seeking it. So there's kind of a paradox. There's this paradox, it sounds trite, but you can't actually become happy, you can only be happy. It's that illusion that your future being happy can be predicated on this act of becoming happy in any domain. Becoming includes this sort of further scientific understanding on the questions that interests you or getting in better shape or whatever the contingency of your dissatisfaction seems to be in any present moment. Real attention solves the problem in a way that becomes a very different place from which to then make any further change.

It's not that you just have to dissolve into a puddle of goo. You can still get in shape and you can still do all the superficial things that are obviously good to do, but the sense that your wellbeing is over there really does diminish and eventually just becomes a kind of non-sequitur.